CHARTERS OF THE FRIARS PREAOHERS OF AYR. 3

ABsTRAc'r.

Notarial copy of Bull of Pope Clement (Fourth) in favour of the master
and brethren of the order of Predicants, whereby, in answer to certain
petitions from them for remedy against the misrepresentations of some
prelates and others in various parts of the world, asserting that they were
dead (to the world), and not capable of enjoying temporal property, thereby
designing to exclude them from succession to any goods, the Pope declares
that they, being in the world, may lawfully succeed to, possess, and sell,
temporal property, and employ the proceeds to their own advantage as they
may think best 3 and decrees all sentences of interdict‚ suspension, and
excommunication, by whomsoever pronounced, contrary to the tenor of this
Buss, to be null and void. Dated at Perugia (1 21311) February (1266). Oopied
by Thomas Forbes, notary, at Edinburgh, 251311 September 1515.

3. Charter by Χίης] Robert the Bruce to the Prior and [Convent qf the
Friars Preaolwrs of ΑΨ, of ‚220 out of the Rem-3 qf the Mills of
the Buryh of Ama—[eth February 1328]

Robertus Dei gracia Rex Scottorum omnibus probis hominibus tocius
terre sue salutem. Sciatis nos pro salute anime nostre 613 pro salute
[animarum antecessorum] et successorum nostrorum regum Scocie dedisse
concessisse et per presentes literas nostras confirmasse religiosis viris priori
613 conventui fratrum Predicatorum [de] Are viginti libras sterlingorum de
elemosina nostra speciali pro sustentacione ecclesie et domorum suarum
percipiendas sibi [annuatim de primis firmis] molendinorum nostrorum et
burgi nostri de Are ad terminos Pentecostes et Sancti Martini in hyeme pro
equali porcione [per manus Camerarij nostri Scocie et minis]trorum suorum
qui pro tempore fuerint absque aliqua contradictione. In cuius rei testi-
monium has literas nostras perpetuo duraturas [sibi fieri fecimus] patentes.
Apud Gervan in Garrick sexto die Februarij anno regni nostri vicesimo tercio.1

1 The original is much torn ; small portion of Great Seal left. The lost porticus are restored
from the confirmation by King David, No. 7.

