OHARTERS OF THE FRIARS PREACHERS OF AYR. 93

Et ego vero Stephanus Prestoun clericus Glasguensis diocesis sacraque
auctoritate apostolica notarius publicus (etc. in forma communi).

ABSTRAcr.

Instrument of Sasine proceeding on Resignation therein narrated, by
Adam Wallace of Newtoun, alderman of Ayr, of his Walkmill, and
pertinents, as to the see of it, situated within the territory of Ayr, in the
Borowfeild thereof, King's Kyle, and shire of Ayr, between the lands of
Holmeshill on the one side, and the water of Ayr on the other, together
with a piece of land belonging to the said mill, and the salmon fishings of
the “ croeS,'' in the milldam, in favour of the Friars Preachers of the church
of St. Katherine of Ayr ε whereupon, Hugh Wallace, brother natural of the
said Adam, also resigned his frank tenement of the said mill, land and
fishingS, in favour of the said friars, in whose name Robert Prait, the prior,
received sasine at the hands of Richard Reid, bailie of Ayr. Done in the
public street of Ayr, near the church of the said friars, the resignations at
ten and the sasine at eleven o'clock before noon, 29th February 1524.

59. Confirmation by Χίης] James V. of αη Act <ff the Lords of Oouncil,
reyardiny the ifffflment, by the Town of ΑΨ, of the convent of
the Friars Preaohers in their property—[Act dated 2132 February
1507. Confirmation 17th June 1525]

Jacobus Dei gracia rex Scottorum omnibus probis hominibus suis ad
quos presentes litere pervenerint salutem Sciatis nos quoddam actum sive
decretum per Dominos Consilii inferius descriptum datum et promulgatum
utique intellexisse sub hac forma At Edinburgh the xxj day of Februar the
yeir of Grod jm vC and vij yeris In presence of the lordis os Counsale under-
writtin that is to say reverend faderis in God Andro bischop of Murray
David bischop of Ergile noble and michtie lordis Archibald Erle of Ergile
David Erle of Oraufurde Matho Erle of Levinax venerable faderis in God
J ohne prior of Sanctandrois J ames abbot of Dunfermling thesaurar Laurence
Lord Oliphant J ohne Lord Drummond Maister Gawyne Dunbar archidene
of Sanctandrois clerk of registre and Schir Williame Scot of Balwery
knicht comperit J ohne Browne and Robert Olerk burgessis of the toun of

