14 OHARTERS OF THE FRIARS PREAOHERS OF AYR.

to be paid to the said prior and convent in name of their damages and inter-
est, before our oomplaint shall be determined or heard in any Oourt, canoni-
calor civil: And for the greater security of this matter, to be for ever inviolably
obsewed, I have made bodily saith to the foresaid prior and convent by
touching the sacred gospels: And Ι, Juliana, and my heirs, shall warram: and
for ever defend the foresaid annualrent‚ with the said house and perches,
as is better and more freely before written, against all men and women. In
witness whereof‚ because 1 have not my own seal, I have procured the seal
of Henry of Aberdalgy‚¹ burgess of Ayr, in my name and stead to be affixed
to this present writing‚ together with the common seal of the burgh of Ayr,
for the sake of greater evidence, these being witnesses, Adam of More, then
alderman of Ayr,2 Andrew of Orauford, and William son of Martin, then
bailies of the said burgh, John Olerk, William Petyt, John of Crauford,

Symon of VVasehford, John Olerk, son, and many otherS.

11. Charter by Andrew <ff Waffbrd, omd Maryaret his wffe, to the Friars
Preachers of Ayr, of α Tenemem and three perches of Lomol in
Ama—[Not dated, but circa 1340]

Omnibus hoc seriptum visuris vel audituris Andreas de Wasford filius
et heres quondam Symonis de Wasford 3 burgensis dc Are salutem in
domino sempiternam: Noverit universitas vestra me in mea legittima potes-
tate dedisse concessisse et hac presenti carta mea pro me et heredibus meis
in perpetuum confirmasse Deo et beate Katerine virgini et domui Fratrum
Predicatorum de Are pro salute anime mee et animarum parentum meorum
[et] successorum ac omnium fidelium defunctorum et pro lumine exspendendo
in magno altari predicti conventus illud tenementum quod quondam fuit
patris mei et in meo tempore dedi Margarete uxori mee pro toto tempore
vite sue iacens inter terram quondam Reginaldi Allvynson ex una parte et
terram Baty Flessor ex altera parte eum 16 kyll et cum duabus particatis
terre iuxta predictum kyll et unum croftum quod vocatur Crukithalf acre
iacens inter Camyrgate et longum croftum predictorum fratrum de Are Et

¹ A Walter de Abirdalgy had a charter from late as 1431. Archoeozoyical and Histom'cal

Robert Bruoe of certain lands in and near the Collections relatiny to ΑΨ and Wiyton (1878),
town of Ayr. Ray. May. Siy. (Record edition), pp. 226, 227, 230.

p, ξ, No. 43, ³ Probably one of the witnesses to the preced-
The “Alderman of Ayr” is mentioned so ing charter.

