CHARTERS OF THE FRIARS PREAOHERS OF AYR. 61

tempore 66 dicto annuo redditu tantum Super quibus vero omnibus et
singulis sic premissis pecijt antedictus prior procuratorio nomine ex parte
dicti locj hoc presens publicum instrumentum per me notarium publicum
subscriptum sibi fierj Acta erant hec super solum dicti tenementj hora quasi
ν11]’ὓι ante meridiem vel ea circa anno die mense indiccione et pontificatu quibus
supra presentibus ibidem providis viris Roberto Olerk de Aldhaw ¹ Willelmo
Red² J ohanne Brisbane Thoma Cowpare et Thoma ΜΊ31163 seriando com-
burgensibus dicti burgj testibus ad premissa vocatis specialiter et rogatis.

Et ego vero dominus Andreas Μ’(1011111113 presbiter Glasguensis diocesis
publicus imperiali autoritatibus ac regali notarius (etc. in forma
communi).

ABsrRAor.

Instrument on the Resignation by William Noble, the cooper, burgess of
Ayr, and Isabella Coupland his wife, in the hands of Adam Wischard, bailie
of Ayr, of a yearly rent of eight shillings out of their tenement, lying
between the bridge of the said burgh on the north, and the tenement of
Finlay Inglis on the south, whereupon the said bailie, by delivery of a
penny, gave heritable state and sasine of the same yearly rent, to friar
John Red, prior of the convent of the Friars Preachers of St. Katherine,
of the said burgh, for a yearly obit and prayer, with rites of the dead, and
mass to be sung on the morrow, in the said church, to be celebrated at the
same time yearly, reserving the liferent of the said sum until the death of
one of the resigners, after which it shall be paid to the convent for ever;
the burden of the bell to be paid by the said prior and convent during the
time of the said yearly rent only. Dated 13th December 1488.

42. Reversion by Andrew Raperlaw‚ in favour of the Friars Preachers of
Ayr, ofa Half 0⁹⁰th ffLand.—-[13th April 1491.]

Be it kend till all men be thir present lettrez me Andro Raperlaw
burges of the burgh of Are to be bundyn and oblist leleye and treulie be
the saith and treuth in my body and be thir my present lettrez of rever-
sioun straitly bindis and oblis me myn ayris assignais and successouris to

1 Robert Olerk, of Auldhall, was Alderman of Ayr in 1508. Obit Book of ΑΨ, Ρ, 45,

² Probably the same person mentioned in the Obit Book ⁰f ΑΨ, p. 45.
³ Both mentioned in the Obit Book ⁰s ΑΨ, p. 17.

